Command     Used for

cd          Change Directory

ls          List command used for showing the content of a directory.

rm          Remove command used for removing a file or a directory

mv          Used to move files or folders to another location

touch       Allows creating of a new empty file or to update a timestamp on a file

cp          Used to make a copy of a file or folder

mkdir       Make a new directory

pwd         Print work directory, shows the current location in the shell

cat         Allows reading or concatenation of a file

less        Displays the contents of a file one page at a time.

grep        Global regular expression, allows for searching contents of files or folders



Coursera
Version Control
Module 2
Using Bash on Mac Terminal
Using Bash on Mac Terminal
Learning Objectives
Learners will understand how to open the command line - terminal on mac

Learners will become familiar with the most common commands.

Mac Terminal
The Terminal on Mac can be open in one of three ways, Finder, Launch Pad and Spotlight.

Finder
Scroll to the bottom on your desktop and click on the Finder icon

Click on Applications on the left hand side

Locate the folder called Utilities and expand it

The Terminal app should be visible, click it to open

Applications list in the Finder window with Terminal highlighted.
Launch Pad
Press the F4 command

Launch Pad view will appear

In the search bar, click it and type the word Term - short for terminal

The Terminal icon will appear on screen

Click to open

Terminal icon in the Launch pad.
Spotlight
Press the Command Key and the Space Bar

The Spotlight modal will appear

Type in the word Terminal or Term for short

The Terminal icon will appear

Click to open

Spotlight modal with the word Terminal entered in the search bar.
Bash commands
Bash provides a list of commands that helps you navigate through files, view contents of files and also edit features to change or update the contents of a file. Below is a list of the most common commands:

Command

Used for

cd

Change Directory

ls

List command used for showing the content of a directory.

rm

Remove command used for removing a file or a directory

mv

Used to move files or folders to another location

touch

Allows creating of a new empty file or to upate a timestamp on a file

cp

Used to make a copy of a file or foldler

mkdir

Make a new directory

pwd

Print work directory, shows the current location in the shell

cat

Allows reading or concatenation of a file

less

Displays the contents of a file one page at a time.

grep

Global regular expression, allows for searching contents of files or folders

Flags
Every bash command has flags which will allow you to change the output of the command itself. 
For example, the ls command is used to print out the list of contents inside a directory. 
If we wanted to show the list in a different view, we simply need to add a flag such as -l.

Editing
To edit files in bash you have quiet a few options. 
The most common though is usually VI or Vim. 
VI stands for visual editor and it allows you to make edits and changes to a file and save them. 
Its very similar to what you may have used in applications like word. 
VIM is a better version of VI with some improvements - hence its name visual editor improved. 
Learning the different commands in Vim will feel a bit different coming from GUI applications but once you practice it will feel like second nature. 
Vim uses modes to determine the commands you can work with:

1.Normal mode: Default mode

2.Insert mode: Allows the contents of the files to be edited.

3.Command line mode: Normal commands begin with :